	50,800
	Elite
	Seven
	Ten
	Three +One’s
	Three
	8th
	102,000
	Master
	Eight
	Ten
	Three +One’s
	Three
	9th
	204,400
	Grand Master
	Nine
	Ten
	Three +One’s
	Four
	10th
	409,200
	Living Legend
	Ten
	Ten
	Three +One’s
	Four
	

Alchemy
You must be an Alchemist to brew Concoctions. The brewing process takes the following steps:
1. Gather Ingredients
The required ingredients for one Concoction of a given Tier are listed. Higher Tier ingredients can create one additional Concoction per Tier difference.
2. Select Effects
Select effects based on Tier & Essence using the table as a guide. Must be equal or higher Tier to choose the effect.
3. Concoct
Concoct for one week per Tier of all effects. Result is a crude Concoction with Toxicity equal to total Tiers of all effects. Refine by making Research & Trade Checks, reducing Toxicity by one per Hit.


All Concoctions are either instant or linger for d6 rounds for lasting effect. You may freely increase the duration at Tier 3 to d6 minutes, Tier 6 to d6 hours & Tier 9 to d6 days.
Toxicity
Distilling the Wicked Winds into a Concoction is toxic. After drinking a Concoction, make an Imbibe Check, subtract Toxicity from your Hits, if 0+ suffer 1 Corruption.


Wicked Essence
	Examples: Tier 1
	Examples: Tier 3
	Examples: Tier 5
	Examples: Tier 8
	Blue Essence
	Gust bomb, knock all within a 5ft area prone
	Speak to birds, gain +20 & +2 Hits to commands
	See the future, Reverse any Check
	Sprout wing & fly 60ft per round
	Ingredients
	Hawk Feather
	Pegasus Hoof
	200s of Sapphires
	Griffon Wing
	Brown Essence
	Tooth & claw, d6+MB Dmg & Bleed 1 weapon
	Strong beast oil, deal +2 Damage Dic to beasts
	Grow to Large Size, +5 Dmg & Soak, 4 Wounds
	Grow to Huge Size, +10 Dmg & Soak, 5 Wounds
	Ingredients
	Wolf Claw
	Krieg Beast Quill
	200s of Amber Lumps
	Hydra Head
	Gold Essence
	Eurika! +10 & +1 Hit to Intelligence
	Can melt a lock’s worth of steel or lesser metal
	Your skin turns to gold, +2 AV to all Locations
	Quarrel against 8 Hits or turn to Stone
	Ingredients
	Iron Ore
	Cup of Mercury
	200s of Gold Nuggets
	Basilisk Eye
	Green Essence
	Scar over wounds, Recover all Wounds
	Cure poison, Remove all Poison
	Grow a shrub, Entangle 5 or Suffocate imbiber
	Return to life in 2d6 rounds after dying
	Ingredients
	Tree Sap
	Troll Toe
	200s of Jade Stones
	Treefolk Limb
	Gray Essence
	Quarrel against 2 Hits or suffer 1 Poison
	Smoke bomb, 20ft area of impenetrable smoke
	Fog-like, +30 & +3 Hits to Agility
	You cannot be seen by intelligent creatures
	Ingredients
	Whole Spider
	Criminal Evidence
	200s of Obsidian Shards
	Jabbervrack Brain
	Purple Essence
	Undead oil, deal +1 Damage Die to undead
	Quarrel against 4 Hits or suffer 3 Poison
	Enter stasis, you cannot be harmed until waking
	Extend your Lifespan by one-year
	Ingredients
	Skeleton Bone
	Murder Weapon
	200s of Amethysts
	Vampire Skull
	Red Essence
	Liquid fire, can start a bonfire or deal 1 Aflame
	Rage, gain +1 Attack charging nearest foe
	Breath fire, 2d6+5 Dmg to a 10ft area within 30ft
	Turn red-hot, gaining immunity to fire
	Ingredients
	Burning Coal
	Arsonist’s Heart
	200s of Rubies
	Dragon Scale
	White Essence
	Torchlight, Blind 1 when splashed into eyes
	Reaction, +20 & +2 Hit to Quickness
	Neutralizes any Concoction to water
	Inflict one Wound to Demons on contact
	Ingredients
	Magnified Sunlight
	Blinded Eye
	200s of Diamonds
	Demon Ash
	

Inventing
You must be a Black-Thumb to create an Invention. The writing process takes the following steps:
d4
	Invention Quirks
	1
	This invention is very unreliable,  roll d6, on a 5+ it fails when used
	2
	This invention overheats after use and must cool off for 10 min. If used before that, take one Wound from steam/ sparks
	3
	Each use or hour of use requires 20s worth of fuel or other resources
	4
	This invention is overcomplicated, requiring 3 actions to ready a weapon or 2 hours for other inventions
	

1. Gather Ingredients
Inventions require 50s worth of ingredients per Tier, or 100s worth of ingredients per Tier for Large Inventions.
2. Select Effects
See the table for examples meant to be used as a guide for the Tier & Scope of effects. You must be an equal or higher Tier to select that effect.
3. Invention
After one week of work per Tier of all effects, you have brewed a crude Invention. Crude Inventions start with Quirks equal to the total Tiers of all effects (Max 4). This is refined by making a Research & a Trade Check, then reducing Quirks by one for every Hit.


Scope
	Examples: Tier 1
	Examples: Tier 3
	Examples: Tier 5
	Examples: Tier 8
	Melee Weapons
	Up to 3 RP of Qualities Max: 1 Brutal, Shield 1
	Up to 6 RP of Qualities Max: 2 Brutal, Shield 2
	Up to 9 RP of Qualities Max: 3 Brutal, Shield 3
	Up to 12 RP of Qualities
	Two-Handed Melee Weapons
	Up to 3 RP of Qualities Max: 2 Brutal, Shield 1
	Up to 6 RP of Qualities Max: 3 Brutal, Shield 2
	Up to 9 RP of Qualities Max: 4 Brutal, Shield 3
	Up to 12 RP of Qualities
	Custom Quality
	Worn: Cannot be disarmed
	Weapon Break: Reduce one Dmg Die per parry
	Cripple: Inflicts one Trauma to location
	Devastate: Damage always Critically Injures
	Ranged Arms
	Up to 3 RP of Qualities Max: 1 Brutal
	Up to 6 RP of Qualities Max: 2 Brutal
	Up to 9 RP of Qualities Max: 3 Brutal
	Up to 12 RP of Qualities
	Two-Handed Ranged Arms
	Up to 3 RP of Qualities Max: 2 Brutal
	Up to 6 RP of Qualities Max: 3 Brutal
	Up to 9 RP of Qualities Max: 4 Brutal
	Up to 12 RP of Qualities
	Custom Quality
	Breakdown: Appears harmless, takes one min
	Grapple: Pulls target 10ft per turn, can be cut
	Launcher: Fires Single Use, double reload
	Seek: You do not need line of sight
	Non-Stiff Armor
	Up to 3 RP of Qualities Max: 1 AV
	Up to 5 RP of Qualities Max: 2 AV
	Up to 7 RP of Qualities Max: 2 AV
	Up to 9 RP of Qualities Max: 3 AV
	Stiff Armor
	Up to 3 RP of Qualities Max: 2 AV
	Up to 5 RP of Qualities Max: 3 AV
	Up to 7 RP of Qualities Max: 3 AV
	Up to 9 RP of Qualities Max: 4 AV
	Custom Quality
	Spiked: Unarmed loses the Superficial Quality
	Secure: Protects 3 items from damage & wear
	Powered: +20 & +1 Hits to Muscle Checks
	Autonomous: item is also 3 HD Creature
	Small Inventions
	Foldable Wall: An expandable 5ft x 5ft wood wall
	Steam-Powered Grappling Hook: climbing or pulling.
	Lightning Cannon: Fires bolts of electricity at enemies.
	Clockwork Wings: Allow flight over short distances
	Large Inventions
	

	

	

	

	

Spell Writing
You must control Wicked Wind to write a Spell. The writing process follows:
d4
	Spell Quirks
	1
	Inflicts a Corruption to the caster.
	2
	Sends the caster flying d6 x 5ft back.
	3
	Requires 20s of arcane materials to cast.
	4
	Inflicts a Fatigue to the caster.
	1. Gather Ingredients
Spells require 100s worth of ingredients per Tier.
4. Select Effects
Use the table as a guide to select the Tier and Wind of the desired effects. You must be at least that Tier of the effect.
5. Write Spell
After one week of work per Tier of all chosen effects, you have created a crude spell. Crude spells have Quirks equal to the total Tiers of all effects (maximum of 4). Refine the spell by making Research and Trade checks, reducing Quirks by one per hit on each check. The spell requires Casting Hits equal to the total Tiers x 5 to be activated.


All spells are either instant or have a duration of d6 rounds. At Tier 3, you may increase the duration to d6 min. At Tier 6, you may increase the duration to d6 hours. At Tier 9, you may increase the duration to d6 days.


Wicked Wind
	Examples: Tier 1
	Examples: Tier 3
	Examples: Tier 5
	Examples: Tier 8
	Blue Wind
	Wind-whistle: create a deafening noise that disrupts spellcasting
	Lift-off: with a rush of wind you jump to any location you can see
	Wind-wall: create a 30ft wall that catches all mundane ranged attacks
	Wind-blade: create a razor sharp wind blade that can cut through most materials
	Brown Wind
	Beast-call: summon a wild animal to your side
	Beast-speech: communicate with and control animals
	Pig-Curse: target Quarrel against 6 Hits or become a 1 HD pig
	Beast-form: transform into a beast of your choice
	Gold Wind
	Shiny-bait: create a small, shiny object to distract enemies
	Shiny-shield: create a shield of reflective metal shards
	Shiny-storm: rain down a barrage of sharp metal shards on enemies
	Iron-touch: turn object iron, living targets Quarrel against 8 Hits
	Green Wind
	Cleaning-wash: rotten or poison food becomes harmless
	Nature-walk: merge with nature and become invisible to animals
	Nature-command: control plants and vines to entangle enemies
	Nature-balance: restore balance, healing all plants and animals
	Gray Wind
	Mist-Hand: can lift 1 Enc & open windows up to 30ft away
	False-Wall: create a perfect illusionary 10ft  wall, door or ceiling
	Spider-like: you grow shadow limbs can climb walls & ceilings
	Beguile: ten targets Quarrel against 6 Hits or follow orders
	Purple Wind
	Fear-touch: instill fear in a single target
	Fear-aura: exude an aura of fear that affects all those around you
	Terrify: Quarrel w/ +2 Hits against all who can see you to force a rout
	Dust: age an object to dust, living targets Quarrel against 8 Hits
	Red Wind
	Fire-starter: ignite a small fire with a thought
	Fire-shield: create a shield of flames that protect
	Fire-ball: launch a ball of flames at a target
	Fire-storm: rain down a barrage of fireballs on enemies
	White Wind
	Whitelight: cannot be doused & inflicts Blind 1 when thrown into eyes
	Holy-water: create a flask of holy water that can harm undead and demons
	Holy-shield: create a shield of holy energy that protects against magical attacks
	Banish: target demon or undead Quarrel against 8 Hits or become ash
	Defiled Winds
	Blood-Fountain: all within short range suffer 1 Bleed
	Undeath: reanimate d6 3 HD bodies, that will follow your orders
	Mutation: a living target Quarrels against 6 Hits or Mutates
	Gravity: control an object’s gravity, Quarrel w/ +3 Hits to rip in half
	

Miracle Working
You must be a devotee of a God to work a Miracle. The writing process takes the following steps:


1d4
	Miracle Quirks
	1
	Inflicts Stress on the caster.
	2
	The caster gains a Blind Condition for a day.
	3
	The caster gains Fatigue Condition.
	4
	The caster must pray for 10 min to use again.
	1. Gather Ingredients
Miracles require 100s worth of ingredients per Tier.
________________
6. Select Effects
Use the table as a guide to select the Tier of the desired effects. You must be at least that Tier to select the effect.
7. Work Miracle
After one week of work per Tier of all effects, you have brewed a crude Miracle. Crude Miracle starts with Quirks equal to the total Tiers of all effects (Max 4). This is refined by making a Research & a Trade Check, then  reducing Quirks by one for every Hit, one each Check.
The Miracle is worked with Casting Hits equal to total Tiers x 5.


All Miracles are either instant or linger for d6 rounds for lasting effect. You may increase the duration at Tier 3 to d6 minutes, Tier 6 to d6 hours & Tier 9 to d6 days.


Gods
	Examples: Tier 1
	Examples: Tier 3
	Examples: Tier 5
	Examples: Tier 8
	Bygorr
	Hunter's-mark: mark a target, gain +10% and +1 Hit against them
	Nature's-grace: gain temporary hit points equal to your level
	Wild-call: summon a pack of wild animals to your side
	Wild-shape: transform into a wild animal of your choice
	Corvis
	Lucky-coin: flip a coin with a 50% chance of success
	Trickster's-glamor: disguise yourself as anyone or anything
	Thief's-trove: transport a small object from anywhere to your hand
	Trickster's-mirror: create an illusory duplicate of yourself
	Dominus
	

	Cleanse: remove from a single target
	

	Dominate: all within 30ft follow your order, Quarrel against 6 Hits
	Furnos
	Wolf-companion: summon a wolf companion to your side
	Winter's-bite: create a blast of icy wind, inflict 2 pain
	Winter's-fury: create a blizzard that blinds and slows enemies
	Winter's-wrath: create a massive avalanche that buries enemies
	Minera
	Healing-touch: restore hit points to a single target
	Mass-healing: restore hit points to all allies within 30ft
	Healing-aura: emit an aura that removes 2 Bleed to all within 30ft
	Greater-healing: restore hit points to all allies within 60ft
	Nox
	Sleep: put a single target to sleep
	Restful-slumber: put all enemies within 30ft to sleep
	Dream-walk: enter the dreams of a sleeping target
	Nightmare: enter the dreams of all sleeping targets within 60ft
	Thonjun
	Tidal-wave: create a massive wave that damages and knocks
	Storm-call: summon a storm to your location
	Lightning-strike: call down a bolt of lightning on a target
	Typhoon: create a massive typhoon that devastates the area
	Ynir
	Fertility-blessing: cause a plant to bear fruit or a creature to reproduce
	Harvest-boon: cause a plant to bear an abundance of fruit or a creature to have
	Harvest-blessing: cause all plants within 30ft to bear an abundance of fruit or all creatures
	Great-harvest: cause all plants within 60ft to bear an abundance of fruit or all creatures
	



Rune Carving
You must be a Rune Carver to create Runes. The carving process takes the following steps:
1. Gather Materials
Runes require 100s worth of gemstone per Tier.
2. Select Effects
See the table for examples meant to be used as a guide for the Tier and type of effects. You must be an equal or higher Tier to select that effect.
3. Carve
After one week of work per Tier of all effects, you have carved a crude Rune. Crude Runes start with Impurity equal to the total Tiers of all effects. This is refined by making a Research and a Trade Check, then reduce the Impurity by one for every Hit.


All Runes are either instant or linger for d6 rounds for lasting effect. You may freely increase the duration at Tier 3 to d6 minutes, Tier 6 to d6 hours, and Tier 9 to d6 days.
Impurity
Runes can be physically and mentally draining. After activating a Rune, make an Hardship Check, subtract Impurity from your Hits, if 0+ suffer 1 Corruption.


Wicked Essence
	Examples: Tier 1
	Examples: Tier 3
	Examples: Tier 5
	Examples: Tier 8
	Blue Essence
(Sapphire)
	Fog: create a thick fog in a 20ft radius
	Lightning-bolt: launch a bolt of lightning at a single target
	Tornado: create a tornado in a 60ft radius
	Control-fate: alter the outcome of a single event within 60ft
	Brown Essence
(Amber)
	Animal-companion: summon an animal companion to your side
	Savage-fury: +20 & +2 Hit to attack, -10 & -1 to defend
	Pack-call: summon a pack of wild animals to your side
	Bestial-form: transform into a wild animal of your choice
	Gold Essence
(Gold)
	Metal-mend: repair a broken metal object
	Metal-form: shape a single metal object into any form
	Metal-form: shape a single metal object into any form
	Metal-storm: create a storm of metal shards in a 30ft radius
	Green Essence
(Jade)
	Healing-touch: restore hit points to a single target
	Growth: cause a plant to grow rapidly
	Tree-summon: summon a tree to fight for you for d6 rounds
	Nature-wrath: cause all plants within 30ft to attack enemies
	Gray Essence
(Obsidian)
	Shadow-step: teleport to any location within sight
	Shadow-form: transform into a shadow
	Shadow-cloak: become invisible to all within 30ft
	Shadow-possession: take control of a single target for d6 rounds
	Purple Essence
(Amethyst)
	Death-touch: deal damage equal to your level to a single target
	Age: cause a single target to age rapidly
	Revert: turn back time for a single target to a previous state
	Time-loop: create a time loop for d6 rounds
	Red Essence
(Ruby)
	Fireball: launch a ball of fire at a single target
	Fire-wall: create a wall of fire in a 20ft radius
	Inferno: ignite all enemies within 30ft
	Firestorm: ignite all enemies within 60ft and create a storm of fire
	White Essence
(Diamond)
	Light: create a bright light in a 20ft radius
	Purify: remove all curses and diseases from a single target
	Holy-radiance: emit a holy radiance in a 30ft radius that damages undead and demons
	Mass-purification: remove all curses and diseases from all allies within 60ft
	

________________





































